.github/agents/speckit.implement.agent.md, before:

---
description: Execute the implementation plan by processing and executing all tasks defined in tasks.md
handoffs:
  - label: Mind 127.0.0.1
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Be aware that 127.0.0.1 and localhost are not allowed in the vscode dev environment. read docs/dev-setup.md
    send: true
  - label: Autonomy
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: You have full autonomy. Stop asking "Should I...?" or "Would you like me to...?" Just **do** it and tell me what you did, preferably after a **large number** of tasks have been completed.
    send: true
  - label: Timeout
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: The test(s) hang. Please use linux timeout to unblock the test flow.
    send: true
  - label: (A)
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Option A
    send: true
  - label: (B)
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Option B
    send: true
  - label: (C)
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Option C
    send: true
  - label: (D)
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Option D
    send: true
  - label: (1)
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Option 1
    send: true
  - label: (2)
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Option 2
    send: true
  - label: (3)
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Option 3
    send: true
  - label: (4)
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Option 4
    send: true
  - label: Yes
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Yes
    send: true
  - label: Okay
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Okay
    send: true
  - label: Continue
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Continue
    send: true
  - label: 8-hour batch: Make
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: I need to occupy you for 8 hours with autonomous work. Create an 8-hour batch based on the current state of the project and its tasks that you can perform fully autonomous. 
    send: true
  - label: 8-hour batch: Run
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: You have full autonomy. Execute: The current 8-hour batch. Do it now. 
    send: true        
  - label: 8-hour batch: Run
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: You have full autonomy. Execute: The current 8-hour batch. Do it now. 
    send: true        
  - label: Solo
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Solo developer mode active. Read `.specify/constitution-solo-mode.md` and follow it strictly: DO NOT create GitHub PRs, issues, or GitHub Actions workflows unless explicitly asked by the user; DO NOT escalate to external support. Prefer providing local scripts, commands, and instructions that the user can run locally (e.g., test commands, local collectors, CLI helpers). Always ask before creating or modifying any GitHub-hosted automation or opening issues/PRs. This project is SOLO — treat automation and issue creation as opt-in and user-requested only.
    send: true          
---

## User Input

```text
$ARGUMENTS
```

You **MUST** consider the user input before proceeding (if not empty).

## Outline

1. Run `.specify/scripts/bash/check-prerequisites.sh --json --require-tasks --include-tasks` from repo root and parse FEATURE_DIR and AVAILABLE_DOCS list. All paths must be absolute. For single quotes in args like "I'm Groot", use escape syntax: e.g 'I'\''m Groot' (or double-quote if possible: "I'm Groot").

2. **Check checklists status** (if FEATURE_DIR/checklists/ exists):
   - Scan all checklist files in the checklists/ directory
   - For each checklist, count:
     - Total items: All lines matching `- [ ]` or `- [X]` or `- [x]`
     - Completed items: Lines matching `- [X]` or `- [x]`
     - Incomplete items: Lines matching `- [ ]`
   - Create a status table:

     ```text
     | Checklist | Total | Completed | Incomplete | Status |
     |-----------|-------|-----------|------------|--------|
     | ux.md     | 12    | 12        | 0          | ✓ PASS |
     | test.md   | 8     | 5         | 3          | ✗ FAIL |
     | security.md | 6   | 6         | 0          | ✓ PASS |
     ```

   - Calculate overall status:
     - **PASS**: All checklists have 0 incomplete items
     - **FAIL**: One or more checklists have incomplete items

   - **If any checklist is incomplete**:
     - Display the table with incomplete item counts
     - **STOP** and ask: "Some checklists are incomplete. Do you want to proceed with implementation anyway? (yes/no)"
     - Wait for user response before continuing
     - If user says "no" or "wait" or "stop", halt execution
     - If user says "yes" or "proceed" or "continue", proceed to step 3

   - **If all checklists are complete**:
     - Display the table showing all checklists passed
     - Automatically proceed to step 3

3. Load and analyze the implementation context:
   - **REQUIRED**: Read tasks.md for the complete task list and execution plan
   - **REQUIRED**: Read plan.md for tech stack, architecture, and file structure
   - **IF EXISTS**: Read data-model.md for entities and relationships
   - **IF EXISTS**: Read contracts/ for API specifications and test requirements
   - **IF EXISTS**: Read research.md for technical decisions and constraints
   - **IF EXISTS**: Read quickstart.md for integration scenarios

4. **Project Setup Verification**:
   - **REQUIRED**: Create/verify ignore files based on actual project setup:

   **Detection & Creation Logic**:
   - Check if the following command succeeds to determine if the repository is a git repo (create/verify .gitignore if so):

     ```sh
     git rev-parse --git-dir 2>/dev/null
     ```

   - Check if Dockerfile\* exists or Docker in plan.md → create/verify .dockerignore
   - Check if .eslintrc\* exists → create/verify .eslintignore
   - Check if eslint.config.\* exists → ensure the config's `ignores` entries cover required patterns
   - Check if .prettierrc\* exists → create/verify .prettierignore
   - Check if .npmrc or package.json exists → create/verify .npmignore (if publishing)
   - Check if terraform files (\*.tf) exist → create/verify .terraformignore
   - Check if .helmignore needed (helm charts present) → create/verify .helmignore

   **If ignore file already exists**: Verify it contains essential patterns, append missing critical patterns only
   **If ignore file missing**: Create with full pattern set for detected technology

   **Common Patterns by Technology** (from plan.md tech stack):
   - **Node.js/JavaScript/TypeScript**: `node_modules/`, `dist/`, `build/`, `*.log`, `.env*`
   - **Python**: `__pycache__/`, `*.pyc`, `.venv/`, `venv/`, `dist/`, `*.egg-info/`
   - **Java**: `target/`, `*.class`, `*.jar`, `.gradle/`, `build/`
   - **C#/.NET**: `bin/`, `obj/`, `*.user`, `*.suo`, `packages/`
   - **Go**: `*.exe`, `*.test`, `vendor/`, `*.out`
   - **Ruby**: `.bundle/`, `log/`, `tmp/`, `*.gem`, `vendor/bundle/`
   - **PHP**: `vendor/`, `*.log`, `*.cache`, `*.env`
   - **Rust**: `target/`, `debug/`, `release/`, `*.rs.bk`, `*.rlib`, `*.prof*`, `.idea/`, `*.log`, `.env*`
   - **Kotlin**: `build/`, `out/`, `.gradle/`, `.idea/`, `*.class`, `*.jar`, `*.iml`, `*.log`, `.env*`
   - **C++**: `build/`, `bin/`, `obj/`, `out/`, `*.o`, `*.so`, `*.a`, `*.exe`, `*.dll`, `.idea/`, `*.log`, `.env*`
   - **C**: `build/`, `bin/`, `obj/`, `out/`, `*.o`, `*.a`, `*.so`, `*.exe`, `Makefile`, `config.log`, `.idea/`, `*.log`, `.env*`
   - **Swift**: `.build/`, `DerivedData/`, `*.swiftpm/`, `Packages/`
   - **R**: `.Rproj.user/`, `.Rhistory`, `.RData`, `.Ruserdata`, `*.Rproj`, `packrat/`, `renv/`
   - **Universal**: `.DS_Store`, `Thumbs.db`, `*.tmp`, `*.swp`, `.vscode/`, `.idea/`

   **Tool-Specific Patterns**:
   - **Docker**: `node_modules/`, `.git/`, `Dockerfile*`, `.dockerignore`, `*.log*`, `.env*`, `coverage/`
   - **ESLint**: `node_modules/`, `dist/`, `build/`, `coverage/`, `*.min.js`
   - **Prettier**: `node_modules/`, `dist/`, `build/`, `coverage/`, `package-lock.json`, `yarn.lock`, `pnpm-lock.yaml`
   - **Terraform**: `.terraform/`, `*.tfstate*`, `*.tfvars`, `.terraform.lock.hcl`
   - **Kubernetes/k8s**: `*.secret.yaml`, `secrets/`, `.kube/`, `kubeconfig*`, `*.key`, `*.crt`

5. Parse tasks.md structure and extract:
   - **Task phases**: Setup, Tests, Core, Integration, Polish
   - **Task dependencies**: Sequential vs parallel execution rules
   - **Task details**: ID, description, file paths, parallel markers [P]
   - **Execution flow**: Order and dependency requirements

6. Execute implementation following the task plan:
   - **Phase-by-phase execution**: Complete each phase before moving to the next
   - **Respect dependencies**: Run sequential tasks in order, parallel tasks [P] can run together
   - **Follow TDD approach**: Execute test tasks before their corresponding implementation tasks
   - **File-based coordination**: Tasks affecting the same files must run sequentially
   - **Validation checkpoints**: Verify each phase completion before proceeding

7. Implementation execution rules:
   - **Setup first**: Initialize project structure, dependencies, configuration
   - **Tests before code**: If you need to write tests for contracts, entities, and integration scenarios
   - **Core development**: Implement models, services, CLI commands, endpoints
   - **Integration work**: Database connections, middleware, logging, external services
   - **Polish and validation**: Unit tests, performance optimization, documentation

8. Progress tracking and error handling:
   - Report progress after each completed task
   - Halt execution if any non-parallel task fails
   - For parallel tasks [P], continue with successful tasks, report failed ones
   - Provide clear error messages with context for debugging
   - Suggest next steps if implementation cannot proceed
   - **IMPORTANT** For completed tasks, make sure to mark the task off as [X] in the tasks file.

9. Completion validation:
   - Verify all required tasks are completed
   - Check that implemented features match the original specification
   - Validate that tests pass and coverage meets requirements
   - Confirm the implementation follows the technical plan
   - Report final status with summary of completed work

Note: This command assumes a complete task breakdown exists in tasks.md. If tasks are incomplete or missing, suggest running `/speckit.tasks` first to regenerate the task list.

Commit message:

docs(agent): add missing Solo-mode reminders; ensure validator passes

.github/agents/speckit.implement.agent.md, after:

---
description: Execute the implementation plan by processing and executing all tasks defined in tasks.md
handoffs:
  - label: Mind 127.0.0.1
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Be aware that 127.0.0.1 and localhost are not allowed in the vscode dev environment. read docs/dev-setup.md
    send: true
  - label: Autonomy
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: You have full autonomy. Stop asking "Should I...?" or "Would you like me to...?" Just **do** it and tell me what you did, preferably after a **large number** of tasks have been completed.
    send: true
  - label: Timeout
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: The test(s) hang. Please use linux timeout to unblock the test flow.
    send: true
  - label: (A)
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Option A
    send: true
  - label: (B)
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Option B
    send: true
  - label: (C)
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Option C
    send: true
  - label: (D)
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Option D
    send: true
  - label: (1)
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Option 1
    send: true
  - label: (2)
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Option 2
    send: true
  - label: (3)
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Option 3
    send: true
  - label: (4)
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Option 4
    send: true
  - label: Yes
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Yes
    send: true
  - label: Okay
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Okay
    send: true
  - label: Continue
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Continue
    send: true
  - label: 8-hour batch: Make
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: I need to occupy you for 8 hours with autonomous work. Create an 8-hour batch based on the current state of the project and its tasks that you can perform fully autonomous. 
    send: true
  - label: 8-hour batch: Run
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: You have full autonomy. Execute: The current 8-hour batch. Do it now. 
    send: true        
  - label: 8-hour batch: Run
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: You have full autonomy. Execute: The current 8-hour batch. Do it now. 
    send: true        
  - label: Solo
    agent: speckit.implement
    prompt: Solo developer mode active. Read `.specify/constitution-solo-mode.md` and follow it strictly: DO NOT create GitHub PRs, issues, or GitHub Actions workflows unless explicitly asked by the user; DO NOT escalate to external support. Prefer providing local scripts, commands, and instructions that the user can run locally (e.g., test commands, local collectors, CLI helpers). Always ask before creating or modifying any GitHub-hosted automation or opening issues/PRs. This project is SOLO — treat automation and issue creation as opt-in and user-requested only.
    send: true          
---

> **NOTE (SOLO MODE):** Solo Developer Mode is active. Do **not** create GitHub PRs, issues, or GitHub Actions workflows unless explicitly requested. Prefer providing local scripts and commands for the user to run.

## User Input

```text
$ARGUMENTS
```

You **MUST** consider the user input before proceeding (if not empty).

## Outline

1. Run `.specify/scripts/bash/check-prerequisites.sh --json --require-tasks --include-tasks` from repo root and parse FEATURE_DIR and AVAILABLE_DOCS list. All paths must be absolute. For single quotes in args like "I'm Groot", use escape syntax: e.g 'I'\''m Groot' (or double-quote if possible: "I'm Groot").

2. **Check checklists status** (if FEATURE_DIR/checklists/ exists):
   - Scan all checklist files in the checklists/ directory
   - For each checklist, count:
     - Total items: All lines matching `- [ ]` or `- [X]` or `- [x]`
     - Completed items: Lines matching `- [X]` or `- [x]`
     - Incomplete items: Lines matching `- [ ]`
   - Create a status table:

     ```text
     | Checklist | Total | Completed | Incomplete | Status |
     |-----------|-------|-----------|------------|--------|
     | ux.md     | 12    | 12        | 0          | ✓ PASS |
     | test.md   | 8     | 5         | 3          | ✗ FAIL |
     | security.md | 6   | 6         | 0          | ✓ PASS |
     ```

   - Calculate overall status:
     - **PASS**: All checklists have 0 incomplete items
     - **FAIL**: One or more checklists have incomplete items

   - **If any checklist is incomplete**:
     - Display the table with incomplete item counts
     - **STOP** and ask: "Some checklists are incomplete. Do you want to proceed with implementation anyway? (yes/no)"
     - Wait for user response before continuing
     - If user says "no" or "wait" or "stop", halt execution
     - If user says "yes" or "proceed" or "continue", proceed to step 3

   - **If all checklists are complete**:
     - Display the table showing all checklists passed
     - Automatically proceed to step 3

3. Load and analyze the implementation context:
   - **REQUIRED**: Read tasks.md for the complete task list and execution plan
   - **REQUIRED**: Read plan.md for tech stack, architecture, and file structure
   - **IF EXISTS**: Read data-model.md for entities and relationships
   - **IF EXISTS**: Read contracts/ for API specifications and test requirements
   - **IF EXISTS**: Read research.md for technical decisions and constraints
   - **IF EXISTS**: Read quickstart.md for integration scenarios

4. **Project Setup Verification**:
   - **REQUIRED**: Create/verify ignore files based on actual project setup:

   **Detection & Creation Logic**:
   - Check if the following command succeeds to determine if the repository is a git repo (create/verify .gitignore if so):

     ```sh
     git rev-parse --git-dir 2>/dev/null
     ```

   - Check if Dockerfile\* exists or Docker in plan.md → create/verify .dockerignore
   - Check if .eslintrc\* exists → create/verify .eslintignore
   - Check if eslint.config.\* exists → ensure the config's `ignores` entries cover required patterns
   - Check if .prettierrc\* exists → create/verify .prettierignore
   - Check if .npmrc or package.json exists → create/verify .npmignore (if publishing)
   - Check if terraform files (\*.tf) exist → create/verify .terraformignore
   - Check if .helmignore needed (helm charts present) → create/verify .helmignore

   **If ignore file already exists**: Verify it contains essential patterns, append missing critical patterns only
   **If ignore file missing**: Create with full pattern set for detected technology

   **Common Patterns by Technology** (from plan.md tech stack):
   - **Node.js/JavaScript/TypeScript**: `node_modules/`, `dist/`, `build/`, `*.log`, `.env*`
   - **Python**: `__pycache__/`, `*.pyc`, `.venv/`, `venv/`, `dist/`, `*.egg-info/`
   - **Java**: `target/`, `*.class`, `*.jar`, `.gradle/`, `build/`
   - **C#/.NET**: `bin/`, `obj/`, `*.user`, `*.suo`, `packages/`
   - **Go**: `*.exe`, `*.test`, `vendor/`, `*.out`
   - **Ruby**: `.bundle/`, `log/`, `tmp/`, `*.gem`, `vendor/bundle/`
   - **PHP**: `vendor/`, `*.log`, `*.cache`, `*.env`
   - **Rust**: `target/`, `debug/`, `release/`, `*.rs.bk`, `*.rlib`, `*.prof*`, `.idea/`, `*.log`, `.env*`
   - **Kotlin**: `build/`, `out/`, `.gradle/`, `.idea/`, `*.class`, `*.jar`, `*.iml`, `*.log`, `.env*`
   - **C++**: `build/`, `bin/`, `obj/`, `out/`, `*.o`, `*.so`, `*.a`, `*.exe`, `*.dll`, `.idea/`, `*.log`, `.env*`
   - **C**: `build/`, `bin/`, `obj/`, `out/`, `*.o`, `*.a`, `*.so`, `*.exe`, `Makefile`, `config.log`, `.idea/`, `*.log`, `.env*`
   - **Swift**: `.build/`, `DerivedData/`, `*.swiftpm/`, `Packages/`
   - **R**: `.Rproj.user/`, `.Rhistory`, `.RData`, `.Ruserdata`, `*.Rproj`, `packrat/`, `renv/`
   - **Universal**: `.DS_Store`, `Thumbs.db`, `*.tmp`, `*.swp`, `.vscode/`, `.idea/`

   **Tool-Specific Patterns**:
   - **Docker**: `node_modules/`, `.git/`, `Dockerfile*`, `.dockerignore`, `*.log*`, `.env*`, `coverage/`
   - **ESLint**: `node_modules/`, `dist/`, `build/`, `coverage/`, `*.min.js`
   - **Prettier**: `node_modules/`, `dist/`, `build/`, `coverage/`, `package-lock.json`, `yarn.lock`, `pnpm-lock.yaml`
   - **Terraform**: `.terraform/`, `*.tfstate*`, `*.tfvars`, `.terraform.lock.hcl`
   - **Kubernetes/k8s**: `*.secret.yaml`, `secrets/`, `.kube/`, `kubeconfig*`, `*.key`, `*.crt`

5. Parse tasks.md structure and extract:
   - **Task phases**: Setup, Tests, Core, Integration, Polish
   - **Task dependencies**: Sequential vs parallel execution rules
   - **Task details**: ID, description, file paths, parallel markers [P]
   - **Execution flow**: Order and dependency requirements

6. Execute implementation following the task plan:
   - **Phase-by-phase execution**: Complete each phase before moving to the next
   - **Respect dependencies**: Run sequential tasks in order, parallel tasks [P] can run together
   - **Follow TDD approach**: Execute test tasks before their corresponding implementation tasks
   - **File-based coordination**: Tasks affecting the same files must run sequentially
   - **Validation checkpoints**: Verify each phase completion before proceeding

7. Implementation execution rules:
   - **Setup first**: Initialize project structure, dependencies, configuration
   - **Tests before code**: If you need to write tests for contracts, entities, and integration scenarios
   - **Core development**: Implement models, services, CLI commands, endpoints
   - **Integration work**: Database connections, middleware, logging, external services
   - **Polish and validation**: Unit tests, performance optimization, documentation

8. Progress tracking and error handling:
   - Report progress after each completed task
   - Halt execution if any non-parallel task fails
   - For parallel tasks [P], continue with successful tasks, report failed ones
   - Provide clear error messages with context for debugging
   - Suggest next steps if implementation cannot proceed
   - **IMPORTANT** For completed tasks, make sure to mark the task off as [X] in the tasks file.

9. Completion validation:
   - Verify all required tasks are completed
   - Check that implemented features match the original specification
   - Validate that tests pass and coverage meets requirements
   - Confirm the implementation follows the technical plan
   - Report final status with summary of completed work

Note: This command assumes a complete task breakdown exists in tasks.md. If tasks are incomplete or missing, suggest running `/speckit.tasks` first to regenerate the task list.
